do you want to learn how to write a blog
post when you suck as a writer well
today is your lucky day hey everyone i'm
neil patel and today i'm going to break
down how to write amazing blog posts
without being an expert in your niche
the copy and paste process
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube please click the alert
notification
now i have a question for you before we
get started have you ever written a blog
post if you have let me know how many
posts you write on a regular basis in
the comments below and if you haven't
just let me know with a no i'm just
curious how many of you actually write
content on a regular basis and i'm
hoping that this video helps encourage
more of you to write and it speeds up
how long it takes you to write so step
one start with a problem that your
target audience needs to solve you can
use tools like quora reddit uber
suggests questions prepositions and
comparisons within ubersuggest and that
will tell you hey here's what some of
the problems and issues that people have
you know like just like when you're
going quora you see a lot of pain points
that people are talking about this gives
you idea on what you should be writing
about
step two do keyword research go into
ubersuggest type in some keywords
related to your space and as you typing
in these keywords you'll see a whole
slew of suggestions do any one of those
topics weren't you know a separate post
should you end up creating content
around that if so great if not no
worries or they can be part of a
comprehensive blog post right if you
have many different keywords and they're
all related to each other they can be
all part of a comprehensive blog post
step three analyze your competition
and what i mean this is type in the
keywords in google that you want to end
up ranking for and you want to write
your content around look at your
competition do they have a long blog
post do they have short blog posts what
are their subheadings do their
subheadings contain keywords are they
answering questions are they talking
about the problems that they're trying
to help solve
look at the keywords that they're
ranking for beside their focused
keywords and you can type in those urls
of your competition within ubersuggest
and it'll tell you that
step four find statistics that can help
you frame your topic in terms of
relevancy business impact you can use
sites like statista google and when
you're on google you can type in like
the keyword plus statistics you can uh
check out google scholar as well there's
so many data points and stats within
that as well
step five create your outline for your
content piece and i want you to create a
few headline variations it's all about
the headline they say with headlines 8
out of 10 people will read it but only 2
out of 10 will click through to the rest
now when you think about headlines if
you're struggling check out copy blogger
headline formula you can just google for
that it'll help you write better
headlines you also want to check out
headings with your headings you want to
include some of the keywords that you're
targeting for headings also make it
easier for people to just skim your
articles which means their headings
should be as catchy as your headlines
now you want to cover topics that you've
seen in the top 10 ranked content pieces
that are covering the topic that you're
covering and cover additional points and
topics that your competition isn't
covering yet such as if there's
something new that no one's talking
about you should cover
and just as a rough framework for you
when i'm outlining my content i start
with a headline
then i create my introduction paragraph
then i outline the main headings that i
want to cover and those are the main
topic points within my article then i'll
write the conclusion and the conclusion
should be a summary of what people
should learn and then i end the
conclusion with a question mark that's
because it causes more people to leave a
comment below which then helps boost
your engagement with your content and
you get more little readers now question
for you is do you leave a question at
the end of your blog post if you do just
let me know with a yes below if you
don't just say no i don't leave a
question at the end of my blog post and
i'm curious and if you say no you should
consider trying it it's a very effective
trip now bonus tip use tools like jarvis
to ai that can do a lot of the work for
you it can help you with the outlining
process and it can write part of your
content it's not perfect we'll write
your whole blog post for you but it can
roughly save you maybe 30 minutes to
hour depending on uh how prolific of a
blogger you are when it comes to writing
your own content
now if you need help with your content
marketing check out my ad agency np
digital where we write content for our
clients or if you just have a question
leave a comment below and i'm here to
answer and help you out if you enjoy the
video like it share it tell the people
about it thank you for watching